Convert 2nd part of rewriting chapter to prodn (#13707)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/language/core/conversion.rst

In |Cic|, there is an internal reduction mechanism. In particular, it
can decide if two programs are *intentionally* equal (one says
:term:`convertible`). Convertibility is described in this section.
See :ref:`controlling-the-reduction-strategies` describes how

> to influence how convertibility is determined.

Reviewer: No. AFAIK controlling the reduction strategies won't have a critical influence on how the kernel eventually decide if two terms are convertible. I was rather suggesting linking to the "Performing computations" section for how to apply each of the reduction rules described below.

equal ignoring differences in the names of variables bound within the expression.
For example `forall x, x + 0 = x` is α-convertible with `forall y, y + 0 = y`.

β-reduction
~~~~~~~~~~~

:gdef:`β-reduction <beta-reduction>` reduces a :gdef:`beta-redex`, which is

> a term in the form `(fun x => t) t'`.  (:term:`beta-redex`

Author: How about the simpler ``(fun x => t) u` instead of using subscripts?

> a term in the form `(fun x => t) t'`.  (:term:`beta-redex`

Reviewer: Yep, that works too!

is short for "beta-reducible expression", a term from lambda calculus.
See `Beta reduction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beta_normal_form#Beta_reduction>`_
for more background.)

For instance, the identity function over a given type :math:`T` can be written
:math:`λx:T.~x`. In any global environment :math:`E` and local context
:math:`Γ`, we want to identify any object :math:`a` (of type

> :math:`T`) with the application :math:`((λ x:T.~x)~a)`.

Author: I wasn't sure what it meant or if it said something worth keeping.

For the `inference`, I put the following, which incomplete if not incorrect:

```
.. inference:: Beta

   \WFE{\Gamma}
   --------------
   E[Γ] ⊢ ((λx:T.~t)~u)~\triangleright_β~\subst{t}{x}{u}
```

> :math:`T`) with the application :math:`((λ x:T.~x)~a)`.

Reviewer: Can you do without the inference bar (and what's above). I.e., I was just suggesting reusing the inference environment itself. If it doesn't work without the inference bar, then putting an inference bar with nothing on top is also OK.

instance the identity function over a given type :math:`T` can be written
:math:`λx:T.~x`. In any global environment :math:`E` and local context
:math:`Γ`, we want to identify any object :math:`a` (of type
:math:`T`) with the application :math:`((λ x:T.~x)~a)`.

> This is referred to as :gdef:`β-reduction <beta-reduction>`.

Reviewer 2: Technical nit: The identification isn't called β-reduction.  The identification is undirected, while β-reduction is directed.  The identification follows from β-reduction, which is given in the mathematical equation below.

Author: Think I got it.  What is the meaning of "identify" in this paragraph?

Reviewer 2: "declare to be convertible"

Author: How about "We want to declare some terms to be convertible so we can identify the application of a function to a given argument with its result."

And maybe change "identify" to "associate", "reduce" or "map"?

Reviewer: IMHO this section is badly written. The part showing intent ("we want to declare some terms to be convertible") is useless and could be removed. Let's try to be factual instead: beta-reduction reduces a beta-redex (the application of a function to an argument) and thus allows to identify the two as convertible.

Reviewer 2: I like @Zimmi48 's suggestion, and have a minor not: "allows to identify" should be "allows us to identify" or "allows Coq to identify" or "allows identification of".  And perhaps "function" should be replaced with "lambda" since otherwise it might refer to a term of function type, rather than a term which is syntactically headed by a lambda.

Reviewer: I was thinking with Gallina in mind, where lambda is `fun`.

Author: I made it "function definition" rather than "lambda".  Couldn't find the old text with "allows to identify".  Let's consider further revisions of the conversion chapter in #13815.

:math:`((λx:T.~t)~u)` and, conversely, that :math:`((λ x:T.~t)~u)` is the
*β-expansion* of :math:`\subst{t}{x}{u}`.

> According to :gdef:`β-reduction <beta-reduction>`, terms of the *Calculus of

Reviewer: The actual definition of the term is the sentence above "We define for this a reduction rule we call beta".
The current paragraph doesn't define anything and I'm thinking "According" is not even the appropriate term to use here (probably "Thanks to" would be more appropriate). Anyway, as you said in  #13811, this section is very poorly written and would deserve a big update.

Author: I removed a few words, a band-aid for now.

:math:`((λx:T.~t)~u)` and, conversely, that :math:`((λ x:T.~t)~u)` is the
*β-expansion* of :math:`\subst{t}{x}{u}`.

Terms of the *Calculus of

> Inductive Constructions* enjoy some fundamental properties such as confluence,

Author: For some reason, the hyperlink for the term doesn't work here.  Terms with spaces in them are OK, so I have no idea.  It is listed in the glossary and the link there works.  Go figure.

strong normalization, subject reduction. These results are
theoretically of great importance but we will not detail them here and
refer the interested reader to :cite:`Coq85`.

.. _delta-reduction-sect:

δ-reduction
~~~~~~~~~~~

:gdef:`δ-reduction <delta-reduction>` replaces variables defined in local
contexts or constants defined in the global environment with their values.

> We can say the variable is expanded (or unfolded) into its value. Formally, this is:

Author: Which definition is better:  ```We can say the variable is expanded (or :gdef:`unfolded <unfold>`) into its value.```

or

```:term:`Unfolding <unfold>` means to replace a constant by its definition.```

`local context` is there, but in the wrong place (shown below).  In my local copy, the letters are in the order `c l a`.  Not sure why.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/108585746-ed188980-72fe-11eb-900d-820b48c3d08b.png)

> We can say the variable is expanded (or unfolded) into its value. Formally, this is:

Author: I fixed the index by changing the earlier commit "Correctly sort the glossary"

> We can say the variable is expanded (or unfolded) into its value. Formally, this is:

Reviewer: I prefer the second definition.

   --------------
   E[Γ] ⊢ c~\triangleright_δ~t

:term:`Delta-reduction <delta-reduction>` only unfolds constants that are
marked :gdef:`transparent`.  :gdef:`Opaque <opaque>` is the opposite of
transparent; :term:`delta-reduction` doesn't unfold opaque constants.

ι-reduction
~~~~~~~~~~~

A specific conversion rule is associated with the inductive objects in
the global environment. We shall give later on (see Section
:ref:`Well-formed-inductive-definitions`) the precise rules but it
just says that a destructor applied to an object built from a
constructor behaves as expected. This reduction is called
:gdef:`ι-reduction <iota-reduction>`
and is more precisely studied in :cite:`Moh93,Wer94`.

ζ-reduction
~~~~~~~~~~~

> :gdef:`ζ-reduction <zeta-reduction>` removes local definitions in terms by

Reviewer: I think calling these definitions let-in definitions rather than local definitions is more explicit and thus clearer:

```suggestion
:gdef:`ζ-reduction <zeta-reduction>` removes :ref:`let-in definitions <let-in>` in terms by
```

replacing the defined variable by its value. This reduction differs from

> δ-reduction because the declaration is removed from the term entirely.

Reviewer: I don't think this is the only difference since the description of `delta` in the description of `lazy` says:

>Notice that the delta doesn't apply to variables bound by a let-in construction inside the term itself (use zeta to unfold these).

Therefore, I suggest amending slightly the wording to not imply this (or maybe even repeat what is said over there).

   E[Γ] ⊢ \letin{x}{u:U}{t}~\triangleright_ζ~\subst{t}{x}{u}

.. _eta-expansion-sect:

η-expansion
~~~~~~~~~~~

> Another important concept is :gdef:`eta-expansion`. It is legal to identify any

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest a uniform style
```suggestion
Another important concept is :gdef:`η-expansion <eta-expansion>`. It is legal to identify any
```

Author: I guess.  Greek letters in glossary terms are awkward: we want to list them in the index in Romanized form, hence the "<...>", but then if you want to reference the term with the greek letter you have to give the verbose ```:term:`η-expansion <eta-expansion>` ```
